---
title: "Go back to the basics of pronunciation"
layout: post
date: 2024-11-09 12:53
tag: Personal Development
headerImage: false
projects: false
hidden: false
description: speech coaching
category: blog
author: yubin
---

I took up a speech coaching course with the aim of improving my voice and presentation skills. Taking notes after every session so as to make sure I digest the content as much as possible.

---

## Session 1 - Nov 9

I will keep it a habit to write down what I have learnt in the speech coaching course as soon as possible, so that I don’t forget the essence that I really want to start practicing and make a change to the way I speak.

Also, writing thoughts down is always a way of articulating my thoughts, which might help me structuring my flow of speech later on.

## What I have learnt

For this session, unlike what I thought a speech coaching session generally teaches, this really goes back to **the basics of pronunciation and articulation**. I think this approach is actually more suitable for me whose mother tongue is not English, which means that my mouth, tongue and ears are not really immersed early enough to have the instincts of the right tones and sounds. Unknowingly this could be the reason that I always have the struggle to narrate a story the way that I wanted.

Specifically, the coach starts with **different pronunciations even for the same words**. How words sound differently, depending on the meaning of it. Generally, a noun would have the stress put to the first letter, and a verb would have the stress on the first consonant of the second syllabus. 

Attribute; Combat, Conduct; Contest; Conflict

Then the coach teaches on the **importance of the plosive sounds** - I don’t even know how “b” sounds. It is “ba” rather than “b” on its own - you’ve got to just relax while making the explosive sound. The way that I was taught at school on English is to be very precise about the vowels and exaggerate especially those that require more oral muscle exertions, for example, the “a” in “apple”, “i” in “fit”, however in the reality it actually makes it sound less pleasant, speech sounds much nicer when we pay more attention to the rhythm of the consonants - when we try to lengthen the letters, such as “s”, “f”, they carry more weight when we want to convey a message. Try saying “splendid” “feel”. Personally I think I also need to be more cautious about lengthening doesn’t equal to stress. Just relax and make it flow.

**Silent letter**: 

Second “c” in conduct; second “t” in statement - let it flow; English is lazier than my mother tongue Chinese - people can get the message without spitting out all the letters

**Vowels examples that I tend to make mistakes:** 

- i - not “ee”, but more towards “ih”, you don’t even need to put too much attention when you try to pronounce the letter. “irritating”, “fit”, “will”, “skid”
- o - “con” is usually pronounced as something more towards “cong” with the velar nasal sound; that makes it harder for me to pay more attention to the “c” sound.
- o - “con” when it is in front of the stress letter, it is pronounced as “uh” rather than “con”
- reasons of the pronunciation - because a lot of the preceding consonants were actually pronounced very differently. I think when I practice more and get along, it will be better.

## Reflections

It is actually very interesting!

Something that I learnt from the coach’s own presentation:

- Have a story, but not long: where he started; some highlight of his work experience and quirky facts
- He puts more weight into his personal story than his background (not too many selling) which then also connects well with the content that he was going to teach.

Create awareness on how I say a word

- **the speed within the word**: sometimes it can be more syllabuses in reality when we want to have certain rhythm in it
- **the overall speed**: there is no need to rush up your speech - language is the tool and it only becomes effective when used in the right way. Just slow it down and think help your audience understand you

## What I want to practice

Read the books that I want to read for 1 hr every day, pay extra attention to the letter pronunciation in “s”,”t”,”f”,”b” to make it sounds more natural.

The materials that I had are also very helpful. I plan to read it through and digest. Really like that they break it down the English

